Medical Specialty:IME-QME-Work Comp etc.
Sample Name: Qualified Medical Evaluation Report
Description: Qualified medical evaluation report of a patient with back pain.
(Medical Transcription Sample Report)
DRUG ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. SOCIAL HISTORY: He denies tobacco or alcohol use. He is currently on social security disability. He has been off work for over a year. He is married. He has four children. He does relate that he had a history of alcoholism. He quit drinking at age 23. He has not taken a drink for the past 37 years. REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: General: No recent weight gain or weight loss. No fevers or chills.HEENT: No headaches, earaches, or nose or throat symptoms.Cardiopulmonary: No chest pain, shortness of breath, or palpitations.Gastrointestinal: No abdominal pains, nausea, or vomiting.Genitourinary: No dysuria, polyuria, or hematuria.
 FACTORS FOR DISABILITY: OBJECTIVE: 1. He has decreased cervical range of motion and lumbar trunk range of motion. 2. He exhibits disuse atrophy in the right shoulder girdle area and right biceps. 3. He exhibits diminished grip strength in the right upper extremity, which is his dominant arm per Jamar dynamometry. 4. He has an abnormal MRI of the cervical spine revealing disc protrusion at C5-6 on the right with multilevel degenerative disc disease and spondylosis. He also exhibits lumbar degenerative disc disease in the lumbar spine. 5. He has an abnormal MRI of the right shoulder revealing prominent impingement with tendonitis and tenosynovitis involving the supraspinatus and biceps tendons. 6. He has also had an abnormal nerve conduction study of the lower extremities suggesting a possible L5 radiculopathy on the right and the left by Dr. K. 
SUBJECTIVE: 1. Based on my evaluation of his neck pain complaints, it would be considered frequent and slight at rest. 2. Regarding his right shoulder pain complaints, it would considered frequent and slight at rest, increasing to a more moderate level with the use of the arm at or above shoulder height or repetitive pushing, pulling, lifting or torquing with the right upper extremity. 3. With regards to his lower back pain complaints, it would be considered constant and slight at rest. With activities of prolong sitting, standing, repetitive bending, stooping or lifting, it might increase it to a more moderate level of pain. LOSS OF PRE-INJURY CAPACITY:  With regards to the loss of pre-injury capacity, The patient relates that prior to his industrial injuries of 06/29/1994 as well as 03/29/1997, he was capable of repetitively bending and stooping. He could easily lift about 100 pounds. He states he now has difficulty performing these tasks. He cannot lift more than 10-15 pounds without aggravating his back, neck, or shoulder. He also states he could repetitively use his arm at or above shoulder height. He could push, or pull and lift at least 40-50 pounds without difficulty, now having difficulty lifting more than 5-10 pounds with the right upper extremity. He also relates having difficulty with sustained positions of neck gaze upward and downward as well as repetitive rotational movements of his neck, which he did not have prior to his industrial injuries. He states he difficulty with prolonged sitting or standing for more than 10-15 minutes at a time. He states prior to his industrial injuries as above, he could prolonged sit and stand for eight hours at a time without difficulty. WORK RESTRICTIONS AND DISABILITY:  With regards to work restrictions and disability, I would find it reasonable to place this patient in a disability category resulting in a limitation to a semi-sedentary work which contemplates the individual can do work approximately one-half the time in a sitting position and approximately one-half the time in a standing or walking position with the minimum of demands for physical efforts whether standing or walking. Basically, the patient should not be allowed or forced to sit for more than 15 minutes at a time and be allowed five minute interval change. He should not be allowed to stand for more than 15-20 minutes at a time and be allowed a five minute interval change in position. The patient should not repetitively bend or stoop, he should not lift more than 10-15 pounds maximally. He should avoid repetitive use of the right upper extremity at or above shoulder height and not repetitively push or pull or lift more than 10 pounds with the right upper extremity. He should avoid sustained positions of upward and downward gaze and repetitive motion movements of his neck. CAUSATION AND APPORTIONMENT:  With regards to issues of causation, this patient's history of injuries appear consistent with his above complaints relative to his industrial injury of 06/29/1994 as well as 03/29/1997. With regards to issues of apportionment, there are two separate industrial injuries it appears. There has been some suggestion that the second injury of 03/29/1997 was actually a flare-up or exacerbation of his old injury of 06/29/1994. There is no question that the second injury probably did flare up his injury complaints of 06/29/1994, but also in my opinion, this is a new injury that occurred on 03/29/1997. It is my opinion that there is some apportionment in this case. I would apportion at least 50% of his injury to his new injury of 03/29/1997. The remaining 50% would be apportionable to his pre-existing injury of 06/29/1994.
 FUTURE MEDICAL CARE:  Regarding future medical care, it is my opinion that future medical treatment should be allowed. The patient has in particular benefited from chiropractic care and Myox type muscle strengthening exercises for his neck, back, and shoulder pain complaints. Basically, he should be allowed 12-24 visits of chiropractic care per year to manage his industrial injury complaints. He should be allowed physical therapy for at 12-24 visits per year as well. The patient should be allowed access to analgesics, antiinflammatories, and muscle relaxers from time to time should he choose to use them. He should also be allowed surgical indication for his right shoulder, his neck, and lumbar spine should he change his mind about invasive procedures. Also, injection procedures such as steroid injections in his right shoulder for shoulder pain as well as epidural steroid injections in the cervical and lumbar spines should be considered an option for him if he should change his mind about these as well. VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION:  Regarding vocational rehabilitation, the patient is a qualified injured worker in my opinion. He is currently on social security disability. If the patient should choose to re-enter the work force, he should be allowed access to vocational retraining to do so.
Keywords: ime-qme-work comp etc., qualified medical evaluation, disability, emg, work restrictions and disability, forward flexion, gluteal, grasping, gripping, internal rotation, lower back pain, nerve conduction studies, numbness, pain, pulling, pushing, radiating, right upper extremity, shoulder, supraspinatus, thigh, selective nerve root blocks, shoulder pain complaints, epidural steroid injections, selective nerve root, nerve root blocks, social security disability, permanent and stationary, degenerative disc disease, upper extremity, lumbar spine, lower extremities, disc herniation, steroid injections, shoulder height, cervical spine, degenerative disc, disc disease, chiropractic care, myox, nerve, biceps, mris, cervical, lumbar, neck, disc, spine, injury, chiropractic, degenerative,
