Vascular Surgery SOAP Note Sample Report #2 
SUBJECTIVE: The patient is a (XX)-year-old man referred for an opinion regarding left leg DVT. He has been in good health, but developed a stress fracture of the left foot six months ago, resulting in placement of a cast. The cast was on for three months or so, and around that time, the cast was removed. He had some problems with swelling of the left leg. A subsequent left leg ultrasound demonstrated evidence of acute thrombosis of the left popliteal veins as well as thrombus in one of the tibial veins in the calf. The patient was then placed on anticoagulation, first with Lovenox and eventually warfarin. He has remained on warfarin up to the present time. He initially had some swelling in the leg, but his swelling has gotten better. He still has some problems with the foot, particularly some discomfort with weightbearing and some decrease in mobility in the foot, most likely referable to his forefoot stress fracture. 
OBJECTIVE: On physical exam, the patient is a (XX)-year-old man who appears his stated age. He is awake and alert. Blood pressure is 122/86. Pulse is 78 and regular. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Heart tones are regular. Abdominal exam reveals a soft, nontender abdomen. His aortic pulsation feels normal. Femoral, popliteal, and pedal pulses are palpable bilaterally. There is some very mild swelling in the left ankle and foot, but no swelling in the calf. He has no venous varicosities or stigmata of chronic venous hypertension. 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: In summary, the patient is a (XX)-year-old man with a left popliteal and calf vein deep venous thrombosis, most likely due to immobilization of the left leg due to a foot fracture and casting. Based on his physical exam, he does not have a significant venous outflow obstruction since there is minimal to no swelling at this point. We told the patient that we agree with the current management plan, which includes a period of three to six months of anticoagulation with warfarin. We would recommend a popliteal ultrasound at three months to look for vein recanalization. Following the period of anticoagulation, a knee-high support stocking would be helpful to prevent sequelae of chronic venous hypertension from post-thrombosis valvular dysfunction. We will plan to see the patient back on a p.r.n. basis. The patient seems satisfied with this plan and recommendation. 
