Vascular Surgery SOAP Note Transcription Sample Reports 
SUBJECTIVE: The patient is a (XX)-year-old man with a history of chronic venous insufficiency and a prior venous ulcer. He returns today for a preoperative evaluation prior to undergoing right greater saphenous vein stripping. He had a right ankle ulcer due to chronic venous hypertension that began last year. After a period of treatment with conservative management, using compression therapy, the ulcer ultimately healed. A vein valve duplex study of the right leg demonstrated incompetence of right greater saphenous vein beginning at the saphenofemoral junction extending down through the thigh. Deep vein valve closure times were normal. Right greater saphenous vein stripping and ligation was recommended to prevent recurrent ulceration. The patient has a history of varicose veins dating back many years and underwent bilateral lower extremity varicose vein surgery previously. He has, otherwise, been in good health and has no other active medical problems and is on no medications. There is a family history of venous varicosities. No family history of bleeding or clotting abnormalities. 
OBJECTIVE: The patient is a (XX)-year-old man who appears his stated age. He is awake and alert. Blood pressure is 134/98. Pulse is 86 and regular. Lungs are clear. Heart sounds normal, regular. Examination of the legs reveals venous varicosities in the greater saphenous distribution of the right leg with significant trophic changes of chronic venous hypertension in the lower leg. 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: In summary, the patient has right greater saphenous venous valvular incompetence. We have recommended a right greater saphenous vein stripping and ligation to lower his risk of recurrent venous ulceration. We have gone over the risks of the procedure in detail with him. He has signed a consent form today. His operation is scheduled sometime in the near future as an outpatient. We have asked him to avoid taking aspirin or anti-inflammatory medications within one week of the operation. 
